layout: post
title: "Day 10 – Arduino and Tinkercad"
date: 2025-06-09
author: Alexandra Mensah
permalink: /day10.html
tags: 
  - Research
  - Tinkercad
  - Presentation
  - Google Slides

what_i_learned: |
  Today, my team and I did heavy research on a microcontroller board used to program and control electronic circuits. It communicates with sensors and outputs data. We read a detailed article explaining connections using the breadboard and Arduino. A breadboard is a reusable platform for connecting components and wiring circuits without soldering. It has rows and columns of connected pins. The article explains the troubleshooting process and the challenges they faced, which we could learn from. It will prepare us for mistakes or problems we might face. By experimenting with these connections and coding, we can become more comfortable with Arduino and breadboard setups. Then we implemented all we have learned into Tinkercad. TinkerCAD helps us simulate circuits without physical components. Working on this with my team was surprisingly easy; we all understood it pretty well. Soon, we will apply the articles and videos of Arduino to real-life components, which is exciting.

blockers: |
  There were no blockers during the research or while practicing with TinkerCAD.

reflection: |
  First, I want to say that it was a really enjoyable experience exploring the website TinkerCAD. I learned so much about Arduino, breadboard, and components like LEDs and potentiometers. I now have knowledge of how to connect everything to the breadboard. We can organize our circuit neatly and avoid direct, messy connections to the Arduino. I can apply this knowledge when we get the components in person tomorrow.
